h1. Rplots

A collection of erubis templates for plotting with R and ruby.

h2. Pre-requisites

You'll need to install R:

<pre><code>
# ubuntu
sudo apt-get install R
</code></pre>

For mac os x try: http://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/. If the mac installer doesn't already, symlink the @Rscript@ executable to @/usr/bin/Rscript@.

Once R is installed, install "ggplot2":http://had.co.nz/ggplot2/.

<pre><code>
Rprompt$: install.packages("ggplot2")
</code></pre>

h2. Examples

Provided are some examples of using the templates with "Swineherd":http://github.com/Ganglion/swineherd. All examples make use of the "configliere":http://github.com/mrflip/configliere gem, thus using @--help@ as an option should print options specific to that plot example.

h3. XY plot

<pre><code>
./xyplot.rb --points --width=800 --point_size=0.1 data/henon.tsv
</code></pre>

h3. Histogram

<pre><code>
./histogram.rb data/frequency.tsv
</code></pre>

h3. Log-Log Histogram

<pre><code>
./logloghist.rb data/frequency.tsv
</code></pre>

h3. World Map

<pre><code>
./worldmap.rb --lat=2 --lon=3 data/airports.tsv
</code></pre>

h4. Timeseries with Months

Often it is the case you've got timeseries of the form:

<pre><code>
 201006 1234
 201007 5678
 ...
</code></pre>

This transforms the month field into something R can understand and plots it with the right scaling.

<pre><code>
./monthseries.rb --month=2 --y=3 --xlab="Month" --ylab="Passengers in + Passengers out" data/passengers_in_out_lax_airpt.tsv
</code></pre>

More are on the way.
